In the United States, we have in high
schools and in colleges
um sports that are sex segregated. Is
that a good idea?
>> Uh yes. I am in favor of of sexarated
sports in most circumstances. And part
of it is part of the reason is and I'm
going to I'm going to land on the plane,
but I want to bring us on a on a little
detour. Uh which is that so I so I've
been doing a lot of research about the
origins of of Title N. And so Title 9 is
the civil rights statute that uh bans
sex discrimination in education is
largely associated with sports. Although
when it was first passed by Congress in
1972, there was a real set of questions
about whether it would apply to sports
at all. And so there is a uh Congress
passes another law a few years later
that tells the agency at the time you
have to come up with regulations about
sports. And there's a huge uproar um in
the sports community in the men's sports
community because the idea of sharing
resources with women is intolerable. Um
and so there ends up being uh a lot of
effort put into in critically important
ways the investment in women's sports
and I think that the context of sports
in which we continue to have sex
separation is an important part of
continuing that promise of title 9. Now,
do I think that we need to have sexed
sports because of some concern about
women not being able to have access to
sports teams if they're not sex
sexarated for the reasons that you
identify? Yes, I accept that premise
that in the aggregate men are have
athletic advantages in a majority though
not all sports and that one of the ways
that sex separation has worked is to
ensure those opportunities for women.
However, I do not think that's the only
reason. I also don't think that's the
relevant question when we talk about
trans inclusion in sports. But I do I do
accept that sexarated sports is an
important part of preserving women's
opportunity in sports right now. I mean
I will tell you a story which is that a
school I won't say which school but a
school in my general vicinity during the
peak of uh what you know what we call
wokeness nowadays had uh a field day
that had traditionally had separate
sports for men and women and they
decided they needed to put the girls and
boys together and the reports from the
girls the next day was that they were
absolutely miserable because of course
the boys won I don't want to say all but
won most of the games. So what what is
wrong based on that reality with saying
that whatever else whatever whatever the
absolute truth about the nature of
transgender identity is if you have the
advantages of a biological male you
should compete in male sports. What's
wrong with that?
>> Well I I think there's two things that I
want to say that I think are wrong with
it when we're talking about categorical
exclusions. I am not disputing that
there are conversations to be had about
how we manage the inclusion of trans
people in in sports. But so if you have
a rule, as half the states in the
country do, that from sometimes
kindergarten through college, sometimes
sixth grade through college, no trans
girl can ever compete on a girl's team.
I think that that poses a problem for
two reasons. One, I think that
complete exclusion from athletic
opportunities that align with gender
identity, even practices, even
intramurals, even club teams, I think
violates the promise of of equality
under title 9 and and the equal
protection clause because if the
question is if you have an athletic
advantage then you can't participate
then why not in the non-competitive
spaces. That's the first piece of it.
And then the second is we do have a
group of young people who have never
gone through a male puberty. They
transitioned before they did. They
received puberty blockers. And all of
the evidence in those cases is that they
do not have that athletic advantage
because in the aggregate the driver of
athletic advantage is circulating
testosterone. They have never had that.
They've never gone through an endogenous
puberty. um and they too are
categorically barred from all women's
teams. So I think in those two
circumstances I would say it it it it
highlights that the breadth is the
problem.
>> So in in the last case I want to
stipulate that I think that argument
about the nature of the advantage is
contested but
let's say that it were true. Would then
the solution be to have a system of
basically like effectively strength
testing or hormonal analysis or
something like what you're objecting to
categorical bands but what is the case
by case approach that you're imagining?
>> Well, I I mean I think it depends on the
context but if we're talking about
competitive high school athletics my my
view is that it should be left to the
athletic associations to come up with a
rule that balances inclusion
>> and it's a copout. what would you're in
charge of the athletic association.
What's your rule?
>> Well, my my rule is not a rule that you
probably agree with. Um and then I'll
give you a rule that I think would be
the appropriate compromise. Um because
I'm in favor of talking about
compromise. So my rule would be that you
have to undergo hormone therapy um for a
period of time that is studied um for
the age group and then at that point you
can participate. We don't we don't test
individual athletic anything um in order
to participate um on a team um in boys
and girls. I think that we come up with
a rule, it's applied once you meet the
threshold, then you can participate um
and I think that balances equity,
inclusion, um and concerns about
athletic advantage. That would be my
proposal.
What I don't understand is why when we
propose things that our compromises were
met only with bands because another
option would be to say if you if you are
on puberty blockers if you went through
only uh female hormonal puberty um and
that you can you submit evidence to that
effect then what is the basis under the
argument about athletic advantage of
excluding that in individual
because there were examples of
associations that were starting to
impose more stringent rules that looked
like that and then this administration
forced those to go back to a categorical
ban. So I think there's just questions
about why are we categorically excluding
people and why are we going so young in
age.
>> So let me make a suggestion then for why
you have that resistance to compromise
right now. In part, it's rooted in a
sense that your side is interested in
compromise now that it is facing
cultural setbacks, but just a few years
ago was making taking a much more
maximalist position. And so it is a
normal feature of cultural contest and
democratic politics, right? That if you
overreach, then your protestations that
you only want compromise uh might fall
sometimes on deaf ears, right? And
again, in the case of women's sports,
I don't know exactly what the ideal
medical testing regime that, you know,
you would have that would enable certain
transgender athletes to play. I'm open
to an argument about that, but I just
lived through a period where regardless
of what a medical test said, I could
look at a photograph of someone like
Leah Thomas, you know, who was extremely
successful uh as a female swimmer, and
you could you could just look at the
photographs of Leah Thomas with female
teammates. And from my own point of
view, it looked absurd. It looked like
absurd overreach on the part of the
transgender rights movement that was
undermining the basic fairness of
women's sports. And that is sort of my
that that's also my larger my larger
perspective here, right? Like I I I
think you know you said you said earlier
that you know maybe you've sort of
learned something about the importance
of dialogue and safe spaces and
compromise and so on. Um
I feel like if you have learned that it
is as the result of overreaching
>> well so I don't so I what I'll say is
that just to respond to the the example
of of Leah Thomas is one thing I'm
worried about is that if we accept the
premise that what we're doing is looking
at people and deciding who is trans that
we as
>> bystanders um are going to be policing
the bodies of of women athletes. What's
happening now is that the people who are
being pulled aside for quote unquote sex
testing are cisgender girls with short
hair with big muscles. Serena Williams
spent a very significant part of her
career being accused of being a man. Uh
tall, fast women's athletes are often
accused of being men and so we're
imposing this this type of regime. and
my experience. Uh, and when I say that,
you know, I I I'm open to to dialogue.
I've I've always been open to dialogue,
I just think that right now there is
this false narrative that we were never
in a position to want to compromise when
my experience, my very first experience
talking about women's sports was in the
context of the government proposing a
ban on it. um that conversation was
introduced in order to try to undermine
the ability for LGBT advocates to move
basic non-discrimination protection. So
we didn't know we didn't introduce a
conversation about sports or about
restrooms. And I think that that's an
important part of this history following
Oberafell following the Supreme Court's
decision striking down bans on marriage
equality and the efforts in Charlotte
North Carolina in Houston, Texas to pass
non-discrimination ordinances which
people continue to say are largely
popular. That's where we started to hear
about trans people using the bathroom
and then subsequent to that about trans
people in sports and we did not
introduce those
>> as right as as activists.